Task for Analyst Improvado 
USING BI - Recreate a Dashboard


Metrics? 

Spend 

CPM
CTR 
CPC 

Video Views 
Impressions 
Conversions
Conversion Rate 

I see (from left top to right bottom) 

8 squares each with: 
a metric, recent change and a visual trend line. 

A big trend lines graphic (Programmatic, Paid Search, Paid Social, Organic) 
with millions on the y axis and time in months on the x axis. 


Right top
Table or matrix

1st Channel Performance
has channel, Impressions (K), % impressions change, CTR (%), % CTR change


2nd. Data Source Performance

Source, Impressions, %change, CTR, %change

3rd. Campaign Performance 
Campaign, Impressions, %change, CTR, %change


---
Instructions 
1 st 
Generate dummy data that brings the dashboard to life

Create realistic marketing metrics (impressions, CTR, CPC, conversions, etc.)
Include multiple channels (Programmatic, Paid Search, Paid Social, Organic)
Multiple data sources (Amazon Ad Server, StackAdapt, LinkedIn Ads, Facebook, Google, Bing, etc.)
Include campaign-level data with varying performance metrics

---
2. 
Build out the visualizations to match the design

Top-level KPI cards with sparklines
Channel Performance table with metrics and trends
Data Source Performance table
Campaign Performance table
Time series chart showing channel trends over time

---
-Record 1-2 minute video explaining how to use it
---

Share
1. What each widget shows and why it matters
2. How someone would actually use this dashboard day-to-day 
3. Any insights you notice in the data 

4. Your thought process behind the dummy data generation. 

---
objectives to be evaluated: 
how you approach data visualization and communicate insights.

Evaluation Criteria
We'll assess:

Visual accuracy - How closely does it match the -original design-?
Data realism - Does your dummy data look realistic and tell a story?
Communication - How well do you explain the dashboard's purpose and usage?
Insight generation - Can you identify and articulate patterns in the data?

-
Deliverables 
1. Live dashboard link or exported dashboard file. 
https://uanledu-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/g/personal/david_suarezgrz_uanl_edu_mx/IQBYEnWpmRn3RqWg8nYkN4nyAcEWiXux37b-tuoF7-aDots?e=6DcYAZ
2. 1-2 minute video walkthrough (-Youtube link-, loom or any video hosting platform)

3. Brief description of your data generation approach (optional, but appreciated) 

The visual has a y axis with a range from 0 to 15 M. 
programmatic line has an overall positive trend starting from 6 million ending at 7 but with consecutive stronger ups in january down in february, up 1, low 1, up 2 low 2 then subtle increase ending at 7M. 
paid search has an increase from a low 2.6M in mars reaches 8M april 3M july august small increase down in september to 2.6 strong up in october to 8M low and up in december at 7M. 
Paid social starts at 1M up to 3M in april small .5M decrease in may reaching similar to april in july and august great low in september less than 1M but close october 3.1M november 2M dec 2.5. 
organic somehow 0 all the months. 



---
Actual data
---
Data Sources 
Amazon Ad Server, StackAdapt, LinkedIn Ads, Facebook, Google Display & Video 360, Bing Ads, Google Search Ads
Campaign Performance - Table campaigns

Business-Focused zero tolerance
Persistent 24/7 attitude 
Integrated dedicated contingency 
Profound intangible policy 
Centralized modular throughput 
Automated uniform software 
Cross-platform static hierarchy 
Networked value-added time-frame 

---
To do: 
1. Generate dummy data and establish a power BI model.
I made the following dataframes 
months, channels, sources, campaigns in a python notebook file. 
Then made the facts table by iterating with for loops. 
The dataframes have foreign keys and primary keys to generate future relationships with the facts table and were usefull to generate the facts table as well as they were handy to iterate in the for loops to write the facts table. 

Data for the facts table (impressions, video views, conversions) were generated by giving the following description to an LLM (Chatgpt): 
The visual has a y axis with a range from 0 to 15 M. 
programmatic line has an overall positive trend starting from 6 million ending at 7 but with consecutive stronger ups in january down in february, up 1, low 1, up 2 low 2 then subtle increase ending at 7M. 
paid search has an increase from a low 2.6M in mars reaches 8M april 3M july august small increase down in september to 2.6 strong up in october to 8M low and up in december at 7M. 
Paid social starts at 1M up to 3M in april small .5M decrease in may reaching similar to april in july and august great low in september less than 1M but close october 3.1M november 2M dec 2.5. 
organic somehow 0 all the months. 

The python file ended by exporting the dataframes in CSV format and were further accessed from power BI. 
In power BI relationships were automatically generated and then manually changed which ones remained active to ensure a functional star scheme instead of the snowflake scheme originally made. 

2. Calculate KPIs
Make totals for KPIs using calculate sum() of

spend 
cpm 
ctr
cpc 
videoviews 
impressions 
conversions 

Generate Time intelligence measures in a separate measures table to ensure tracking value changes. 
Variables that end in PM and have the following DAX logic: 
CPM PM = 
 CALCULATE([CPM], DATEADD('Marketing Data'[date], -1, MONTH), REMOVEFILTERS ( 'Date' ))

Generate delta variables 
Totals were substracted by the last month to track the difference in the values. Depending on the final format required adjustments and/or calculations were made to make percentages or set the values in K or currency. 

tracking percentual variance DAX example: 
CPC % Δ = 
 DIVIDE([CPC] - [CPC PM], [CPC PM])


conversion rate 

3. Make the KPIs squares in report view. 
I used Cards visualization and then merge them for the time intelligence value with conditional formatting to track in green if values where positive and in red if negative, the main value (totals) and a line graph removing additional format for the trend. Then learned that there is a KPI visual to be used. 

Name 
Quantity (measured Totals) 
relative trend (time intelligence)
line trend 

4. Make the trend lines graphic 
Select a line trend graphic. 
Drag the date in the x axis and the channels variable in the y axis. 

5. Make the tables 
Select the channel, source and campaign respectively by dragging the variables of the original tables into the tables visual
and track impressions, impressions change, ctr and ctr change in each. 

6. Make the showcase video 
---



---
Video Link
https://youtu.be/mGihgQGVzys

Dashboard link
https://uanledu-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/g/personal/david_suarezgrz_uanl_edu_mx/IQBYEnWpmRn3RqWg8nYkN4nyAcEWiXux37b-tuoF7-aDots?e=6DcYAZ